<?xml version="1.0" encoding="iso-8859-1"?>
<?xml-stylesheet type="text/css" href="pmi.css"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN" 
		  "http://www.w3.org/TR/MathML2/dtd/xhtml-math11-f.dtd"
		[ <!ENTITY mathml "http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"> ]>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <title>Overview of PMI Toolbox</title>
  <meta name="Generator" content="/usr/bin/emacs" />
  <link rel="Contents"  href="pmi-toc.xhtml" />
  <link rel="Copyright" href="pmi-gpl.xhtml" />
  <link rel="Index"     href="sorted-index.xhtml" />
  <link rel="Start"     href="index.html" />
  <!-- These three are for the benefit of HTML-only browsers -->
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Language" content="en-us" />
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/xml; charset=iso-8859-1" />
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"  href="pmi.css" />
</head>
<!-- ====================================================================
     PMI Toolbox Documentation
     Copyright (C) 2004  Jonathan Stott
     
     This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
     modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
     as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
     of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
     
     This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
     but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
     MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
     GNU General Public License for more details.
     
     You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
     along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
     Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, 
     Boston, MA  02111-1307, USA.
 ==================================================================== -->
<body>

<h1 id="Title">Overview of PMI Toolbox</h1>

<p>The Photon Migration Imaging (PMI) toolbox implements numerous
algorithms for performing the forward and inverse calculations
associated with diffusive optical imaging.  Some of the features
supported by the PMI Toolbox include:</p>
<ul>
  <li>Infinite, semi-infinite, and infinite-slab geometries</li>
  <li>Homogeneous and inhomogeneous media</li>
  <li>Simulation routines for modeling DOT experiments</li>
  <li>Fitting data for background optical properties</li>
  <li>Time-domain and frequency-domain imaging</li>
  <li>Interfaces with Monte Carlo and finite difference forward solvers</li>
  <li>Linear and non-linear image reconstruction</li>
  <li>2-D data visualization and 3-D volume visualization</li>
  <li>Data calibration</li>
</ul>

<h1 id="API">Using the PMI Toolbox</h1>

<p>The PMI Toolbox runs under
<a href="http://www.mathworks.com/products/matlab/">Matlab</a>, which
supplies many of the supporting routines used by the toolbox.  While
most routines will run without any toolboxes outside the core Matlab
package, a small number of routines use functions from other Matlab
toolboxes.  In particular, some of the routines for fitting background
optical properties use routines from the optimization toolbox (sold by
<a href="http://www.mathworks.com/">Mathworks</a> as a separate
package).</p>

<p>
To use the PMI Toolbox, the user first sets up a pair of structures,
traditionally called <mat>SD</mat> and <mat>Medium</mat>.  These
structures can either be generated by hand or extracted from the data
file (if the data is <a href="pmi-overview.xhtml#Data">stored</a>
using the PMI data format).  Having generated the <mat>SD</mat> and
<mat>Medium</mat> structures, the PMI Toolbox provides standard
routines for calculating the forward problem, inverting the data or
(for simulations) generating the data, and then visualizing the
results.</p>

<h2 id="Structures">The <mat>SD</mat> and <mat>Medium</mat> Structures</h2>

<p>All the information about the imager/medium system being modeled is
contained in two Matlab structures: the 
<mat><a href="pmi-sd.xhtml">SD</a></mat> and the 
<mat><a href="pmi-medium.xhtml">Medium</a></mat> structure.  
The <mat>SD</mat> structure holds all the information about the imager
(wavelengths, times, frequencies, probe geometry, etc.).  A complete
copy of the <a href="pmi-measlist.xhtml">measurement list</a> is also
included as part of the <mat>SD</mat> structure 
(<a href="pmi-overview.xhtml#MeasList">see below</a>).  The
<mat>Medium</mat> structure, on the other hand, describes the medium
being imaged.  In here are kept the optical properties, the size of
the volume to be reconstructed, and the experimental geometry.</p>

<h2 id="MeasList">The <a href="pmi-measlist.xhtml">Measurement List</a></h2>

<p>The measurement list is used to represent the experimental
parameters corresponding to each measurement.  Each row of the
measurement list corresponds to a single measurement; the columns
contain indicies into different tables in the
<mat><a href="pmi-sd.xhtml">SD</a></mat> structure.  This format also
makes it very easy to pass sub-sets of the measurement list to the
other routines in the toolbox (for example, to save time you might
choose to reconstruct images using only one laser wavelength).  The
ability to easily include or exclude measurements, based on any
criteria the user desires, is one of the most important features of
the PMI toolbox.
</p>

<h1 id="Data">Working with Experimental Data</h1>

<p>While Matlab's file I/O routines are powerful enough to make
importing almost any type of data easy, the preferred data format for
storing data is the native <a href="PMIDataFormat.xhtml">PMI data
format</a>.  The PMI data format is a very general data format and can
be used to represent any experimental geometry supported by the
toolbox (and can be extended to include unsupported auxiliary
information as well).</p>

<p>The advantage of the PMI data format over may other data formats is
that, in addition to the experimental data, the PMI data format
includes meta-data about the experimental geometry (source and detector
locations, imager wavelengths, measurement order, etc) used to
generate the data.  Including meta-data reduces the opportunities for
mistakes and confusion when re-analyzing data after a period of months
or years.</p>

<p>A general set of routines for <a href="pmidata.xhtml">reading and
writing PMI formatted data files</a> as part of the toolbox.</p>

<div class="Footer">
  <hr />
  <div class="linkblk" style="text-align: left">
    <a href="index.html">First Page</a>
  </div>
  <div class="linkblk" style="text-align: center">
    <a href="pmi-toc.xhtml">Table of Contents</a>
  </div>
  <div class="linkblk" style="text-align: right">
    <a href="pmi-gpl.xhtml">Copyright</a>
  </div>
</div>

</body>
</html>
